### Introduction 

- In general, we cannot update field mappings in Elasticsearch. We can add new field mappings as we did earlier, but once we have added a field mapping, we are pretty much stuck with it.  
There is one exception, though; some mapping parameters can be updated, but only a few
of them.  
We can modify mappings to add some parameters Ex: "ignore_above"

- Changing how documents are mapped usually requires reindexing documents.
The first step is to create a new index and define the new mapping and optionally any
index settings.  
When the index is created we need to add documents to it. To do that We could write a script that retrieves documents from the old index, modifies them in one way or another, and then indexes them into the new index.  
Elasticsearch exposes a convenient API specific to this purpose, namely the Reindex
API. This API does the heavy lifting of moving documents from one index to another so that we don’t have to.  
The “source” parameter defines where the documents should be retrieved from and how
to retrieve them. Same goes with "dest". We define index names in index in both of them.  
We can also match some documents and reindex only them.
```JS
POST /_reindex
{
    "source":{
        "index":"reviews",
        "query":{
            "range":{
                "gte": 4.0
            }
        }
    },
    "dest":{
        "index":"new_reviews"
    }
}
```
- We can only extract specific fields into our new index. 
```JS
POST /_reindex
{
    "source":{
        "index":"reviews",
        "_source": ["content","created_at"]

    },
    "dest":{
        "index":"new_reviews"
    }
}
```
- We can change a fields name 
```JS
POST /_reindex
{
    "source":{
        "index":"reviews",
        "_source": ["content","created_at"]

    },
    "dest":{
        "index":"new_reviews"
    },
    "script":{
        "source": """
        ctx._source.comment = ctx._source.remove("content");       
        """
    }
}
```

