## Installation 
---
<span style="color: purple; font-size: 18px">Running Elasticsearch & Kibana in Elastic cloud. 
</span> </br>
<span style="color: magenta; font-size: 18px">STEPS </span> </br>
1. Start signin up with Email on
[Elastic Cloud Trial](https://info.elastic.co/elasticsearch-service-trial-course.html?ultron=udemy-bo&blade=cpl&hulk=web&gambit=guide-to-es).

2. Verify Email & set password.

3. Choose a pre-configured solution. [Elastic Stack] and skip the rest of configurations as it is. 

---
<span style="color: purple; font-size: 18px">Running Elasticsearch & Kibana Locally.</span> </br>
<span style="color: magenta; font-size: 18px">STEPS </span> </br>
[Download Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co/downloads/elasticsearch]) </br>
[Download Kibana](https://www.elastic.co/downloads/kibana)
1. Open CMD.
2. Go the bin folder and start elastic search and kibana.
---
<span style="color: purple; font-size: 18px">Testing</span> </br>

1. Open CMD
2. ```curl http://localhost:9200``` for elasticsearch.
3. ```curl http://localhost:5601``` for kibana.
---
<span style="color: orange; font-size: 18px">
Exploring the elastic search directory.
</span>

1. <span style="color: cyan; font-size: 17px"> bin  </span> : </br>
- Here we have a number of binary scripts. There are a bunch of different helper utilities here.
A couple worth mentioning are "elasticsearch-plugin" and "elasticsearch-sql-cli," which are
used to install plugins and run Elasticsearch SQL queries, respectively.

2. <span style="color: cyan; font-size: 17px"> config  </span> : </br>
- This directory stores a number of configuration files where we can configure Elasticsearch.
- ```elasticsearch.yml``` file is the main configuration file for elasticsearch. 
- ```jvm.options``` JVM is short for "Java Virtual Machine." Since Elasticsearch is built with Java, it
runs within a JVM, which has a certain amount of reserved memory. More specifically, the JVM's heap size. we can configure how much memory should be made available to Elasticsearch at the top
of the file if we need to, with the default value being one 1 GB.
- ```log4j2``` Elasticsearch uses the log4j2 logging framework for writing various information to logs.
This is the most popular logging framework for Java.

The rest of the files with config are for managing roles and configuring users. 

3.  <span style="color: cyan; font-size: 17px"> JDK </span> : </br>
The "jdk" directory contains the OpenJDK that Elasticsearch ships with. "JDK" is short for "Java Development Kit," and is essentially the Java runtime
that will be used by Elasticsearch|
unless one is  installed.

4. <span style="color: cyan; font-size: 17px"> lib </span> : </br> 
The "lib" directory contains a number of dependencies that Elasticsearch needs,
including the "log4j" logging framework, and Apache Lucene, which Elasticsearch builds
on top of.

5. <span style="color: cyan; font-size: 17px">modules </span> : </br> 
The "modules" directory contains a number of built-in modules that provide some additional
functionality to Elasticsearch.
These are enabled by default, so the purpose of them is just to have the code for a number
of features self-contained.

6.  <span style="color: cyan; font-size: 17px">plugins </span> : </br> 
It is empty when starting that's because we haven't added any plugins.
So what is the difference between a plugin and a module, you might wonder?
The difference is that modules are shipped with Elasticsearch, and plugins are a way
for us to add custom functionality to Elasticsearch.